Title: Detection Hub – Self‑Service Installation Pipeline on SCP 

Objective 

Build a self‑service deployment pipeline (SCP pattern) to install/upgrade Detection Hub Helm charts across environments with standardized controls, auditable changes, and minimal manual intervention. 

Scope 

CI/CD pipeline to run Helm upgrade --install against AKS clusters for Detection Hub. 

Parameterized by environment & namespace.(find or create) 

Secure handling of secrets (ACR cred, app passwords). 

Pre‑checks (namespace, quotas, PDB rules) and post‑deploy health checks. 

Rollback on failure; deployment report artifact. 

Background 

Manual install has been validated in dev: 

Shell 

helm upgrade --install -n dev-dethub dethub symphonyfs/detectionhub --version 0.1.0 
 

 

Show more lines 

Business urgency: dependency for SRIAMLGA GA. 
Team capacity constraints pushed delivery from Q1 → Q2. 

Requirements 

4.1 Inputs (pipeline parameters) 

environment: dev | test | stage | prod 

namespace: e.g., dev-dethub 

releaseName: e.g., dethub 

chartVersion: e.g., 0.1.0 

Optional overrides:  

minio.rootPassword 

superset.init.adminUser.password 

superset-postgres.bootstrap.initdb.secret.name 

cn-postgres.bootstrap.initdb.secret.name 

dryRun: true/false 

rollbackOnFailure: true/false 

4.2 Secrets & Registries 

K8s secret: regcred-acr (for symphonyfs.azurecr.io) 

Azure ACR login/Helm repo auth via service connection 

App passwords: Provided via Key Vault or auto-generated by chart; if generated, persist back into K8s secrets. 

4.3 Endpoints & Security 

Public ingress: core-api, superset, minio 

Internal: Minio service, Kafka bootstrap, DB services 

RBAC: restrict who can run pipeline to a specific AAD group(s) 

4.4 Maintenance Rules 

If CNPG replicas = 1, remove PDB to avoid disruptions. 

Pod restarts are safe (no data corruption expected). 

Minimal pods for “up” state: core-db, core-api, superset-db, superset. 

Design Overview 

Azure DevOps multi‑stage YAML (plan → prechecks → deploy → verify → report) 

Key Vault for secret retrieval and injection 

Helm 3 for lifecycle operations 

Helm test + rollout status + HTTP health checks 

Approval gates for higher environments 

Environment‑specific variable groups 

Environments & Config Matrix 

Env 

AKS Cluster Name 

RG 

Namespace 

Ingress DNS Suffix 

Var Group 

KV Name 

dev 

aks-scp-dev-uks-st-scratch 

rg-scp-dev 

dev-dethub 

.dev.example.internal 

vg-dethub-dev 

kv-dethub-dev 

test 

aks-scp-test-uks-st 

rg-scp-test 

test-dethub 

.test.example.internal 

vg-dethub-test 

kv-dethub-test 

stage 

aks-scp-stage-uks-st 

rg-scp-stage 

stage-dethub 

.stage.example.int 

vg-dethub-stage 

kv-dethub-stage 

prod 

aks-scp-prod-uks-st 

rg-scp-prod 

prod-dethub 

.prod.example.com 

vg-dethub-prod (locked) 

kv-dethub-prod (HSM) 

Replace placeholders with your actual cluster/RG/DNS names. 

Deployment Flow 

Plan: resolve chart version, pull values, compute overrides. 

Pre‑checks: namespace exists, regcred-acr exists, PDB rule if CNPG=1, resource quota. 

Deploy: helm upgrade --install with version pin + values + overrides. 

Verify: kubectl rollout status, helm test, HTTP health checks. 

Report: publish logs, version, and summary. Optional Slack/Teams notify. 

Rollback Strategy 

If deploy fails and rollbackOnFailure=true, run:  

helm rollback <release> <revision-1> 

Re-verify; if still failing, auto‑pause and mark manual intervention required. 

Audit & Access 

Azure DevOps environment approvals for stage and prod. 

Pipeline permissions restricted to SCP-Deployers-DetectionHub AAD group. 

All operations logged; artifacts retained for 180 days. 

Acceptance Criteria 

One‑click deploy to dev succeeds with 0.1.0. 

Upgrade path validated (dev → test) with no downtime to minimal pod set. 

Rollback tested and functional. 

Documentation (this page + runbook) complete. 

 Risks 

Wrong PDB handling (single‑node CNPG) → rollout hang. 

Missing RBAC or service connections → pipeline failure. 

Helm chart breaking changes across versions → pin and test. 

Timeline (12 days) 

Requirements (1), Design (2), Implementation (4), Validation (3), Docs (1), Go‑Live (1). 

 Production‑Grade Azure DevOps YAML 

Assumes: service connections to AKS/ACR, variable groups per env, and Key Vault integration are already provisioned. azure-pipelines-dethub.yml- Code_from_Github 


Notes to wire it up: 

Define these variables per variable group: 
AZ_SUB_CONN, AKS_NAME, AKS_RG, KEYVAULT_NAME, and optional secret mappings (AzureKeyVault task automatically maps to env vars with uppercased names without hyphens). 

If your cluster uses private Helm registry, add helm registry login step. 

Add approvals for stage/prod in Azure DevOps Environments. 

 Architecture Diagram 

Text Block Diagram 

Developer / Operator 
        | 
        v 
Azure DevOps Multi-Stage Pipeline 
  ├─ Plan (resolve inputs & version) 
  ├─ Pre-Checks (namespace, regcred-acr, PDB rules) 
  ├─ Deploy (Helm upgrade --install using Key Vault secrets) 
  ├─ Verify (rollout status, helm test, health checks) 
  └─ Report (artifacts, logs, notifications) 
        | 
        v 
AKS Cluster (SCP) 
  ├─ Detection Hub components 
  │    ├─ core-api (Ingress) 
  │    ├─ superset (Ingress) 
  │    ├─ minio (Ingress + internal svc) 
  │    ├─ core-db (CNPG) 
  │    └─ superset-db (CNPG) 
  └─ Secrets 
       └─ regcred-acr + app secrets 
  
 

More info

Operator TriggerAzure DevOps PipelinePlan: Resolve inputs &chart versionPre-Checks: NS,regcred-acr, PDB rule,quotasDeploy: Helm upgrade--installValues + KV secretsVerify: rollout status +helm test + HTTP healthReport: artifacts + auditlogs + notify(AKS Cluster)core-api (ingress)superset (ingress)minio (ingress + svc)core-db (CNPG)superset-db (CNPG)Secrets: regcred-acr, apppasswords 

Fyi 
Status Update

Status Update – Implementation Started 

Proceeding with the SCP self‑service pipeline for Detection Hub. Scope, requirements, and design are finalized. I’ve prepared: 

Confluence documentation (objective, requirements, design, env matrix, acceptance criteria) 

Production‑grade Azure DevOps YAML with:  

Env parameterization and approvals 

Pre‑checks (namespace, regcred-acr, CNPG PDB rule) 

Secure secret handling via Key Vault 

Post‑deploy verification (rollout status, helm test) 

Optional rollback on failure 

Architecture diagram and operational runbook 

Estimated Plan & Timeline (12 days) 

Design & scaffolding, 2) YAML implementation, 3) Validation in dev, 4) Promote to test, 5) Docs/runbook, 6) Go‑Live. 

Next actions: 

Wire up service connections, variable groups, Key Vault references 

Validate install in dev with version 0.1.0 

Share progress and any blockers in our next sync 
